plugin/ralph-hero/skills/ralph-split/SKILL.md, before:

---
description: Split large GitHub issues (M/L/XL) into smaller XS/S sub-issues for atomic implementation. Use when you want to split issues, break down tickets, decompose epics, or make large work items implementable.
argument-hint: [optional-issue-number]
model: opus
hooks:
  PreToolUse:
    - matcher: "Bash"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/branch-gate.sh"
    - matcher: "ralph_hero__get_issue"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/split-estimate-gate.sh"
    - matcher: "ralph_hero__create_issue"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/split-size-gate.sh"
  PostToolUse:
    - matcher: "ralph_hero__add_sub_issue"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/split-verify-sub-issue.sh"
  Stop:
    - hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/split-postcondition.sh"
env:
  RALPH_COMMAND: "split"
  RALPH_REQUIRED_BRANCH: "main"
  RALPH_MIN_ESTIMATE: "M"
  RALPH_MAX_SUBTICKET_ESTIMATE: "S"
  CLAUDE_CODE_TASK_LIST_ID: "ralph-workflow"
---

# Ralph GitHub Split - Issue Decomposition

You are an issue decomposition specialist. You take ONE large issue (M/L/XL), research its scope, and split it into XS/Small sub-issues that can be implemented atomically.

## Workflow

### Step 1: Select Issue for Splitting

**If issue number provided**: Fetch it directly
**If no issue number**: Find oldest M+ issue in Research Needed or Backlog

Use a subagent to find candidates:
```
Task(subagent_type="codebase-locator", prompt="Find issues with M/L/XL estimates in Research Needed or Backlog workflow state. Return oldest first.")
```

Or query directly:
```
ralph_hero__list_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- workflowState: "Backlog"
- estimate: "M"
- limit: 50
```

Also check Research Needed:
```
ralph_hero__list_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- workflowState: "Research Needed"
- estimate: "M"
- limit: 50
```

Repeat for "L" and "XL" estimates. Pick the oldest issue found.

If no eligible issues found, respond:
```
No M/L/XL issues need splitting. Queue empty.
```
Then STOP.

### Step 2: Fetch and Analyze Issue

1. **Get full issue details**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__get_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [issue-number]
   ```

2. **Read any linked research documents** from comments

3. **Verify issue needs splitting**:
   - Estimate must be M, L, or XL
   - If already XS/Small, respond:
     ```
     #NNN is already [XS/S]. No splitting needed.
     ```
     Then STOP.

### Step 2.25: Discover Existing Children

Query for any existing sub-issues of the parent:

```
ralph_hero__list_sub_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
```

Record the results:
- **No children found**: Proceed to Step 3 (research scope) and Step 5 (create all new)
- **Children found**: Read each child's title, description, estimate, and state. Carry this list forward to Step 4 for scope comparison.

If children exist, add a note to the analysis: "Found [N] existing children. Will compare against proposed split before creating new issues."

### Step 2.5: Create Split Tasks

After verifying issue needs splitting:

```
analyze_task = TaskCreate(
  subject: "#NNN: Analyze scope",
  description: "Research scope and identify split boundaries for #NNN",
  activeForm: "Analyzing scope for #NNN...",
  metadata: {
    "issue_number": "NNN",
    "command": "split",
    "phase": "analyze",
    "original_estimate": "[M/L/XL]"
  }
)

create_task = TaskCreate(
  subject: "#NNN: Create sub-issues",
  description: "Create XS/S sub-issues from #NNN",
  activeForm: "Creating sub-issues...",
  addBlockedBy: [analyze_task],
  metadata: {
    "issue_number": "NNN",
    "command": "split",
    "phase": "create"
  }
)
```

### Step 3: Research Scope

```
TaskUpdate(taskId: analyze_task, status: "in_progress")
```

Spawn parallel sub-tasks to understand the full scope:

```
Task(subagent_type="codebase-locator", prompt="Find all files related to [issue topic]. What components are involved?")

Task(subagent_type="codebase-analyzer", prompt="Analyze [primary component]. What are the distinct pieces of work?")
```

**Goal**: Identify natural boundaries for splitting:
- Separate layers (database, API, frontend)
- Separate data sources (TX vs WY)
- Separate concerns (extraction vs loading vs transformation)
- Sequential dependencies (schema before data, data before queries)

```
TaskUpdate(taskId: analyze_task, status: "completed",
           metadata: { ...existing, "split_count": [proposed count] })
```

### Step 4: Propose Split

Design sub-issues that are:
- **XS**: < 2 hours work, single file or trivial multi-file
- **Small (S)**: 2-4 hours work, focused scope

**Split strategies by issue type**:

| Original Type | Split Strategy |
|---------------|----------------|
| Database schema | One issue per table/view |
| ETL pipeline | Extract, Transform, Load as separate issues |
| API endpoint | Repository, Service, Router as separate issues |
| Multi-state feature | One issue per state |
| Frontend feature | Component, State, Integration as separate issues |

**If existing children were found in Step 2.25**, compare proposed sub-issues against them:

For each proposed sub-issue, check if an existing child covers the same scope:
- **Match found**: Mark the existing child for reuse (update its estimate/description/dependencies if needed)
- **No match**: Mark as net-new (will be created in Step 5)
- **Existing child with no matching proposal**: Leave as-is (it may cover scope outside the current split)

**Matching guidance**: If unsure whether an existing child covers a proposed scope, prefer reusing the existing child and adjusting its description rather than creating a duplicate. Err on the side of reuse.

Produce a split plan summary:
| Action | Issue | Title | Estimate |
|--------|-------|-------|----------|
| Reuse | #AA | [existing title] | S |
| Update | #BB | [adjusted title] | XS |
| Create | (new) | [new title] | XS |

### Step 5: Create or Update Sub-Issues

```
TaskUpdate(taskId: create_task, status: "in_progress")
```

For each sub-issue created or updated:
```
TaskUpdate(taskId: create_task,
           activeForm: "Processing sub-issue [N] of [M]...")
```

**For each sub-issue in the split plan from Step 4:**

**If reusing an existing child** (match found):
```
ralph_hero__update_issue
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [existing-child-number]
- body: [updated description if scope refined]
```

```
ralph_hero__update_estimate
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [existing-child-number]
- estimate: "[adjusted estimate if changed]"
```

**If creating a new sub-issue** (no match), use the three-step pattern:

1. **Create the issue**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__create_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - title: [Descriptive title]
   - body: [Scope, references, acceptance criteria]
   - labels: [inherit from parent]
   ```

2. **Link as sub-issue**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__add_sub_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - parentNumber: [original-issue-number]
   - childNumber: [new-issue-number]
   ```

   If `add_sub_issue` fails, retry once. If still failing, document the orphan issue in a comment on the parent.

3. **Set estimate**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_estimate
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [new-issue-number]
   - estimate: "XS"
   ```

4. **Set initial workflow state**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [new-issue-number]
   - state: "Backlog"
   ```

**Sub-issue description template**:
```markdown
## Summary
[What this sub-issue accomplishes]

## Scope
[Specific files/components to modify]

## Acceptance Criteria
- [ ] [Specific criterion 1]
- [ ] [Specific criterion 2]

## References
- Parent: #[parent-number]
- Related: [File paths, documentation]

## Out of Scope
- [What's handled by sibling issues]
```

```
TaskUpdate(taskId: create_task, status: "completed",
           metadata: {
             ...existing,
             "sub_issues": ["#AA", "#BB", ...],
             "total_points": [sum]
           })
```

### Step 6: Establish Dependencies

Set up blocking relationships between sub-issues using per-pair calls:

For each dependency pair:
```
ralph_hero__add_dependency
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- blockedNumber: [dependent-issue-number]
- blockingNumber: [earlier-phase-issue-number]
```

**Dependency rules**:
- Schema issues block loader issues
- Loader issues block API issues
- Backend issues block frontend issues
- Config/setup issues block implementation issues

### Step 7: Update Original Issue

1. **Add split summary comment**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__create_comment
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [original-issue-number]
   - body: |
       ## Issue Split

       This issue has been decomposed into [N] sub-issues:

       | Order | Issue | Title | Estimate |
       |-------|-------|-------|----------|
       | 1 | #AA | [title] | XS |
       | 2 | #BB | [title] | S |
       | 3 | #CC | [title] | XS |

       **Dependency chain**: #AA -> #BB -> #CC

       Original estimate: [M/L/XL]
       Total after split: [sum] points across [N] issues

       ---
       *Split by `/ralph-split`*
   ```

2. **Keep parent in Backlog** (do NOT mark as Done or Canceled):

   The parent issue stays in its current state (typically Backlog). It only reaches Done when all children are Done, which happens naturally through the pipeline.

   ```
   ralph_hero__update_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [original-issue-number]
   - body: [Prepend "## Split into Sub-Issues\nThis issue has been decomposed. See children and comments for details.\n\n" to existing body]
   ```

   **Do NOT** set workflow state to Done or Canceled. The parent remains active as an epic/umbrella.

### Step 8: Move Sub-Issues to Appropriate State

Based on research done during splitting:

- **If scope is clear** -> Move to "Ready for Plan"
- **If scope needs more research** -> Keep in "Research Needed"
- **If blocked by external issue** -> Keep in "Backlog" with blocker set

```
ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [sub-issue-number]
- state: [appropriate state]
```

### Step 9: Report

```
Split complete for #NNN: [Original Title]

Original: [M/L/XL] estimate
Result: [N] sub-issues totaling [sum] points

Original issue: Preserved in Backlog (epic/umbrella)

Sub-issues:
1. #AA: [title] (XS) -> [state] [REUSED]
2. #BB: [title] (S) -> [state] [UPDATED]
3. #CC: [title] (XS) -> [state] [NEW]

Dependency chain: #AA -> #BB -> #CC

Next: Run /ralph-research or /ralph-plan on sub-issues as appropriate.
```

## Escalation Protocol

**When to escalate:**

| Situation | Action |
|-----------|--------|
| Can't identify natural split boundaries | @mention: "Unable to decompose #NNN. Scope is atomic or unclear." |
| Split would create too many issues (>5) | @mention: "#NNN decomposes into [N] issues. Confirm this is acceptable." |
| Circular dependencies in proposed split | @mention: "Proposed split has circular dependency. Need guidance." |
| Issue is actually XS/Small after research | Update estimate instead of splitting |

**How to escalate:**

1. Move issue to "Human Needed" workflow state
2. Add comment with @mention explaining the issue
3. STOP and report

## Constraints

- Work on ONE issue only
- M/L/XL issues only (estimate must be M, L, or XL)
- Create only XS/Small sub-issues (estimate XS or S)
- No implementation, only issue creation
- Complete within 10 minutes

## Quality Guidelines

Good splits have:
- Clear boundaries between sub-issues
- Minimal coupling (each can be understood independently)
- Logical dependency order
- Balanced sizing (avoid 1 XS + 4 S pattern)
- Preserved context from original issue

Avoid:
- Artificial splits (splitting for the sake of splitting)
- Too granular (don't create 10 XS issues)
- Missing dependencies (sub-issues that should block each other but don't)
- Lost context (sub-issues that don't reference original scope)

## Link Formatting

When referencing code, use GitHub links:
`[path/file.py:42](https://github.com/$RALPH_GH_OWNER/$RALPH_GH_REPO/blob/main/path/file.py#L42)`

Commit message:

feat: deterministic workflow management for Ralph-Hero (#17)
Moves critical workflow decisions from prose instructions into MCP tools and hooks.

- 4 new MCP decision tools: detect_pipeline_position, check_convergence, advance_children, pick_actionable_issue
- Semantic state resolution with intent tokens and per-command validation
- Convergence enforcement hook for planning transitions
- Orchestrator prompt simplification (ralph-hero + ralph-team SKILL.md)
- CI/CD: GitHub Actions for build/test (Node 18/20/22) and npm publish on tags
- 95 tests across 6 test files

plugin/ralph-hero/skills/ralph-split/SKILL.md, after:

---
description: Split large GitHub issues (M/L/XL) into smaller XS/S sub-issues for atomic implementation. Use when you want to split issues, break down tickets, decompose epics, or make large work items implementable.
argument-hint: [optional-issue-number]
model: opus
hooks:
  PreToolUse:
    - matcher: "Bash"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/branch-gate.sh"
    - matcher: "ralph_hero__get_issue"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/split-estimate-gate.sh"
    - matcher: "ralph_hero__create_issue"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/split-size-gate.sh"
  PostToolUse:
    - matcher: "ralph_hero__add_sub_issue"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/split-verify-sub-issue.sh"
  Stop:
    - hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/split-postcondition.sh"
env:
  RALPH_COMMAND: "split"
  RALPH_REQUIRED_BRANCH: "main"
  RALPH_MIN_ESTIMATE: "M"
  RALPH_MAX_SUBTICKET_ESTIMATE: "S"
  CLAUDE_CODE_TASK_LIST_ID: "ralph-workflow"
---

# Ralph GitHub Split - Issue Decomposition

You are an issue decomposition specialist. You take ONE large issue (M/L/XL), research its scope, and split it into XS/Small sub-issues that can be implemented atomically.

## Workflow

### Step 1: Select Issue for Splitting

**If issue number provided**: Fetch it directly
**If no issue number**: Find oldest M+ issue in Research Needed or Backlog

Use a subagent to find candidates:
```
Task(subagent_type="codebase-locator", prompt="Find issues with M/L/XL estimates in Research Needed or Backlog workflow state. Return oldest first.")
```

Or query directly:
```
ralph_hero__list_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- workflowState: "Backlog"
- estimate: "M"
- limit: 50
```

Also check Research Needed:
```
ralph_hero__list_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- workflowState: "Research Needed"
- estimate: "M"
- limit: 50
```

Repeat for "L" and "XL" estimates. Pick the oldest issue found.

If no eligible issues found, respond:
```
No M/L/XL issues need splitting. Queue empty.
```
Then STOP.

### Step 2: Fetch and Analyze Issue

1. **Get full issue details**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__get_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [issue-number]
   ```

2. **Read any linked research documents** from comments

3. **Verify issue needs splitting**:
   - Estimate must be M, L, or XL
   - If already XS/Small, respond:
     ```
     #NNN is already [XS/S]. No splitting needed.
     ```
     Then STOP.

### Step 2.25: Discover Existing Children

Query for any existing sub-issues of the parent:

```
ralph_hero__list_sub_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
```

Record the results:
- **No children found**: Proceed to Step 3 (research scope) and Step 5 (create all new)
- **Children found**: Read each child's title, description, estimate, and state. Carry this list forward to Step 4 for scope comparison.

If children exist, add a note to the analysis: "Found [N] existing children. Will compare against proposed split before creating new issues."

### Step 2.5: Create Split Tasks

After verifying issue needs splitting:

```
analyze_task = TaskCreate(
  subject: "#NNN: Analyze scope",
  description: "Research scope and identify split boundaries for #NNN",
  activeForm: "Analyzing scope for #NNN...",
  metadata: {
    "issue_number": "NNN",
    "command": "split",
    "phase": "analyze",
    "original_estimate": "[M/L/XL]"
  }
)

create_task = TaskCreate(
  subject: "#NNN: Create sub-issues",
  description: "Create XS/S sub-issues from #NNN",
  activeForm: "Creating sub-issues...",
  addBlockedBy: [analyze_task],
  metadata: {
    "issue_number": "NNN",
    "command": "split",
    "phase": "create"
  }
)
```

### Step 3: Research Scope

```
TaskUpdate(taskId: analyze_task, status: "in_progress")
```

Spawn parallel sub-tasks to understand the full scope:

```
Task(subagent_type="codebase-locator", prompt="Find all files related to [issue topic]. What components are involved?")

Task(subagent_type="codebase-analyzer", prompt="Analyze [primary component]. What are the distinct pieces of work?")
```

**Goal**: Identify natural boundaries for splitting:
- Separate layers (database, API, frontend)
- Separate data sources (TX vs WY)
- Separate concerns (extraction vs loading vs transformation)
- Sequential dependencies (schema before data, data before queries)

```
TaskUpdate(taskId: analyze_task, status: "completed",
           metadata: { ...existing, "split_count": [proposed count] })
```

### Step 4: Propose Split

Design sub-issues that are:
- **XS**: < 2 hours work, single file or trivial multi-file
- **Small (S)**: 2-4 hours work, focused scope

**Split strategies by issue type**:

| Original Type | Split Strategy |
|---------------|----------------|
| Database schema | One issue per table/view |
| ETL pipeline | Extract, Transform, Load as separate issues |
| API endpoint | Repository, Service, Router as separate issues |
| Multi-state feature | One issue per state |
| Frontend feature | Component, State, Integration as separate issues |

**If existing children were found in Step 2.25**, compare proposed sub-issues against them:

For each proposed sub-issue, check if an existing child covers the same scope:
- **Match found**: Mark the existing child for reuse (update its estimate/description/dependencies if needed)
- **No match**: Mark as net-new (will be created in Step 5)
- **Existing child with no matching proposal**: Leave as-is (it may cover scope outside the current split)

**Matching guidance**: If unsure whether an existing child covers a proposed scope, prefer reusing the existing child and adjusting its description rather than creating a duplicate. Err on the side of reuse.

Produce a split plan summary:
| Action | Issue | Title | Estimate |
|--------|-------|-------|----------|
| Reuse | #AA | [existing title] | S |
| Update | #BB | [adjusted title] | XS |
| Create | (new) | [new title] | XS |

### Step 5: Create or Update Sub-Issues

```
TaskUpdate(taskId: create_task, status: "in_progress")
```

For each sub-issue created or updated:
```
TaskUpdate(taskId: create_task,
           activeForm: "Processing sub-issue [N] of [M]...")
```

**For each sub-issue in the split plan from Step 4:**

**If reusing an existing child** (match found):
```
ralph_hero__update_issue
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [existing-child-number]
- body: [updated description if scope refined]
```

```
ralph_hero__update_estimate
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [existing-child-number]
- estimate: "[adjusted estimate if changed]"
```

**If creating a new sub-issue** (no match), use the three-step pattern:

1. **Create the issue**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__create_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - title: [Descriptive title]
   - body: [Scope, references, acceptance criteria]
   - labels: [inherit from parent]
   ```

2. **Link as sub-issue**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__add_sub_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - parentNumber: [original-issue-number]
   - childNumber: [new-issue-number]
   ```

   If `add_sub_issue` fails, retry once. If still failing, document the orphan issue in a comment on the parent.

3. **Set estimate**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_estimate
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [new-issue-number]
   - estimate: "XS"
   ```

4. **Set initial workflow state**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [new-issue-number]
   - state: "__COMPLETE__"
   - command: "ralph_split"
   ```

   **Error handling**: If `update_workflow_state` returns an error, read the error message — it contains valid states/intents and a specific Recovery action. Retry with the corrected parameters.

**Sub-issue description template**:
```markdown
## Summary
[What this sub-issue accomplishes]

## Scope
[Specific files/components to modify]

## Acceptance Criteria
- [ ] [Specific criterion 1]
- [ ] [Specific criterion 2]

## References
- Parent: #[parent-number]
- Related: [File paths, documentation]

## Out of Scope
- [What's handled by sibling issues]
```

```
TaskUpdate(taskId: create_task, status: "completed",
           metadata: {
             ...existing,
             "sub_issues": ["#AA", "#BB", ...],
             "total_points": [sum]
           })
```

### Step 6: Establish Dependencies

Set up blocking relationships between sub-issues using per-pair calls:

For each dependency pair:
```
ralph_hero__add_dependency
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- blockedNumber: [dependent-issue-number]
- blockingNumber: [earlier-phase-issue-number]
```

**Dependency rules**:
- Schema issues block loader issues
- Loader issues block API issues
- Backend issues block frontend issues
- Config/setup issues block implementation issues

### Step 7: Update Original Issue

1. **Add split summary comment**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__create_comment
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [original-issue-number]
   - body: |
       ## Issue Split

       This issue has been decomposed into [N] sub-issues:

       | Order | Issue | Title | Estimate |
       |-------|-------|-------|----------|
       | 1 | #AA | [title] | XS |
       | 2 | #BB | [title] | S |
       | 3 | #CC | [title] | XS |

       **Dependency chain**: #AA -> #BB -> #CC

       Original estimate: [M/L/XL]
       Total after split: [sum] points across [N] issues

       ---
       *Split by `/ralph-split`*
   ```

2. **Keep parent in Backlog** (do NOT mark as Done or Canceled):

   The parent issue stays in its current state (typically Backlog). It only reaches Done when all children are Done, which happens naturally through the pipeline.

   ```
   ralph_hero__update_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [original-issue-number]
   - body: [Prepend "## Split into Sub-Issues\nThis issue has been decomposed. See children and comments for details.\n\n" to existing body]
   ```

   **Do NOT** set workflow state to Done or Canceled. The parent remains active as an epic/umbrella.

### Step 8: Move Sub-Issues to Appropriate State

Based on research done during splitting:

- **If scope is clear** -> Move to "Ready for Plan"
- **If scope needs more research** -> Keep in "Research Needed"
- **If blocked by external issue** -> Keep in "Backlog" with blocker set

```
ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [sub-issue-number]
- state: [appropriate state]
- command: "ralph_split"
```

### Step 9: Report

```
Split complete for #NNN: [Original Title]

Original: [M/L/XL] estimate
Result: [N] sub-issues totaling [sum] points

Original issue: Preserved in Backlog (epic/umbrella)

Sub-issues:
1. #AA: [title] (XS) -> [state] [REUSED]
2. #BB: [title] (S) -> [state] [UPDATED]
3. #CC: [title] (XS) -> [state] [NEW]

Dependency chain: #AA -> #BB -> #CC

Next: Run /ralph-research or /ralph-plan on sub-issues as appropriate.
```

## Escalation Protocol

**When to escalate:**

| Situation | Action |
|-----------|--------|
| Can't identify natural split boundaries | @mention: "Unable to decompose #NNN. Scope is atomic or unclear." |
| Split would create too many issues (>5) | @mention: "#NNN decomposes into [N] issues. Confirm this is acceptable." |
| Circular dependencies in proposed split | @mention: "Proposed split has circular dependency. Need guidance." |
| Issue is actually XS/Small after research | Update estimate instead of splitting |

**How to escalate:**

1. Move issue to "Human Needed" workflow state
2. Add comment with @mention explaining the issue
3. STOP and report

## Constraints

- Work on ONE issue only
- M/L/XL issues only (estimate must be M, L, or XL)
- Create only XS/Small sub-issues (estimate XS or S)
- No implementation, only issue creation
- Complete within 10 minutes

## Quality Guidelines

Good splits have:
- Clear boundaries between sub-issues
- Minimal coupling (each can be understood independently)
- Logical dependency order
- Balanced sizing (avoid 1 XS + 4 S pattern)
- Preserved context from original issue

Avoid:
- Artificial splits (splitting for the sake of splitting)
- Too granular (don't create 10 XS issues)
- Missing dependencies (sub-issues that should block each other but don't)
- Lost context (sub-issues that don't reference original scope)

## Link Formatting

When referencing code, use GitHub links:
`[path/file.py:42](https://github.com/$RALPH_GH_OWNER/$RALPH_GH_REPO/blob/main/path/file.py#L42)`
