plugin/ralph-hero/skills/ralph-triage/SKILL.md, before:

---
description: Triage GitHub issues from backlog - assess validity, close duplicates, split large tickets, route to research. Use when you want to triage issues, groom the backlog, assess tickets, or clean up issues.
argument-hint: [optional-issue-number]
model: opus
hooks:
  PreToolUse:
    - matcher: "Bash"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/branch-gate.sh"
  PostToolUse:
    - matcher: "ralph_hero__update_workflow_state"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/triage-state-gate.sh"
  Stop:
    - hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/triage-postcondition.sh"
env:
  RALPH_COMMAND: "triage"
  RALPH_REQUIRED_BRANCH: "main"
  CLAUDE_CODE_TASK_LIST_ID: "ralph-workflow"
---

# Ralph GitHub Triage - Backlog Groomer

You are a triage specialist. You assess ONE Backlog issue, determine if it's still valid, and recommend an action. You may close obvious duplicates or completed work, but escalate ambiguous cases.

## Workflow

### Step 0: Verify Branch

Before starting, check that you're on the main branch:

```bash
git branch --show-current
```

If NOT on `main`, STOP and respond:
```
Cannot run /ralph-triage from branch: [branch-name]

Triage should be run from main to avoid accidental commits to feature branches.
Please switch to main first:
  git checkout main
```

Then STOP. Do not proceed.

### Step 1: Select Issue

**If issue number provided**: Fetch it directly:
```
ralph_hero__get_issue
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
```

**If no issue number**: Pick oldest untriaged issue in "Backlog" workflow state using two queries:

**Query 1**: Get IDs of already-triaged Backlog issues:
```
ralph_hero__list_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- workflowState: "Backlog"
- label: "ralph-triage"
- limit: 250
```
Store the returned issue numbers as `triaged_numbers`.

**Query 2**: Get all Backlog issues ordered by creation date:
```
ralph_hero__list_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- workflowState: "Backlog"
- orderBy: "createdAt"
- limit: 250
```

**Select**: Pick the **first issue from Query 2 whose number is NOT in `triaged_numbers`**.

If no untriaged issue found (all numbers are in `triaged_numbers`, or Backlog is empty), respond:
```
No untriaged issues in Backlog. Triage complete.
```
Then STOP.

### Step 2: Assess Issue

1. **Read issue description and comments thoroughly**

2. **Spawn parallel sub-tasks for assessment**:
   Use the Task tool to check codebase and GitHub concurrently:

   ```
   Task(subagent_type="codebase-locator", prompt="Search for [keywords from issue title]. Does this feature/fix already exist?")
   ```

   Also search GitHub for similar issues:
   ```
   ralph_hero__list_issues
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - query: "[keywords from issue title]"
   - limit: 5
   ```

3. **Wait for sub-tasks to complete**

4. **Synthesize assessment** based on agent findings:
   - Does the feature/fix already exist?
   - Are there duplicate issues?
   - What's the realistic scope (XS/S/M/L/XL)?

### Step 3: Determine Recommendation

Choose ONE action:

**CLOSE** - Issue is done, duplicate, or no longer relevant
- Feature already implemented
- Bug already fixed
- Duplicate of another issue
- No longer applicable (tech/product changed)

**SPLIT** - Issue is too large or contains multiple distinct items
- Recommend specific sub-issues to create
- Each sub-issue should be XS or Small

**RE-ESTIMATE** - Issue needs size adjustment
- Current estimate missing or incorrect
- Recommend new estimate with reasoning

**RESEARCH** - Issue is valid but needs investigation
- Move to "Research Needed" workflow state
- Ready for `/ralph-research` to pick up

**KEEP** - Issue is valid as-is
- Leave in Backlog for prioritization
- Add clarifying comment if helpful

### Step 4: Take Action

**If CLOSE:**
```
ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
- state: "Done"
```
Add comment explaining why closed.

**If SPLIT:**

First, discover existing children:
```
ralph_hero__list_sub_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
```

**If children already exist**: Assess whether they cover the proposed split scope.
- If coverage is sufficient, do NOT create new issues. Add a comment noting the existing children cover the scope and adjust estimates/descriptions on existing children if needed.
- If coverage is partial, create only net-new sub-issues for missing scope.

**If no children exist**: Create sub-issues using the three-step pattern:

1. Create the issue:
   ```
   ralph_hero__create_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - title: [Sub-issue title]
   ```

2. Link as sub-issue:
   ```
   ralph_hero__add_sub_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - parentNumber: [original-issue-number]
   - childNumber: [new-issue-number]
   ```

3. Set estimate:
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_estimate
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [new-issue-number]
   - estimate: "XS"
   ```

Add comment to original listing sub-issues (reused and/or created).

**Do NOT close the original issue.** The parent stays in its current state (Backlog). It reaches Done only when all children are Done.

**If RE-ESTIMATE:**
```
ralph_hero__update_estimate
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
- estimate: "[new estimate: XS/S/M/L/XL]"
```
Add comment explaining estimate reasoning.

**If RESEARCH:**
```
ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
- state: "Research Needed"
```
Add comment: "Moved to Research Needed for investigation."

**If KEEP:**
Add comment with any clarifications or context discovered.
Leave workflow state as Backlog.

### Step 4.5: Mark Issue as Triaged

After completing any action (CLOSE/SPLIT/RE-ESTIMATE/RESEARCH/KEEP), apply the `ralph-triage` label:

```
ralph_hero__update_issue
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
- labels: [existing-labels, "ralph-triage"]
```

**Important**: Preserve existing labels when adding `ralph-triage`. Read the issue's current labels first, then include them all plus `ralph-triage` in the update.

### Step 5: Find and Link Related Issues

After triage action is complete, scan for related issues in Backlog or Research Needed:

1. **Query candidate issues**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__list_issues
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - workflowState: "Backlog"
   - limit: 50
   ```

   ```
   ralph_hero__list_issues
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - workflowState: "Research Needed"
   - limit: 50
   ```

2. **Analyze for relatedness** using LLM judgment. Issues are related if they:
   - Touch the same **code layer** (frontend, backend, API, database, infrastructure)
   - Mention the same **files or directories** in their descriptions
   - Address the same **feature area** or **user concern**
   - Have the same **parent issue** (already sub-issues of a larger issue)
   - Share **multiple specific labels** (not just generic ones like `ralph-triage`)

3. **Set dependency relationships** to establish both grouping AND phase order:

   Determine implementation order based on dependencies:
   - Infrastructure/config issues -> Phase 1 (blocks others)
   - Schema changes before API changes
   - API changes before frontend changes
   - Base components before dependent components

   For each dependency pair:
   ```
   ralph_hero__add_dependency
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - blockedNumber: [dependent-issue-number]
   - blockingNumber: [earlier-phase-issue-number]
   ```

   Example: A test config issue (#10) that must complete before test implementation issues (#11, #12) can start:
   ```
   # Config issue blocks the implementation issues
   ralph_hero__add_dependency(blockedNumber=11, blockingNumber=10)
   ralph_hero__add_dependency(blockedNumber=12, blockingNumber=10)
   ```

   **Note**: Dependencies serve TWO purposes:
   - **Grouping**: Issues connected via dependency chains (or same parent) are in the same group
   - **Phase order**: Blockers come before blocked issues

   Within-group dependencies define phase order, not blocking status. The group itself is only blocked if any issue has dependencies pointing **outside** the group.

4. **Check for external blockers**:
   - If any issue in the group is blocked by an issue NOT in this group, note it
   - The group cannot proceed until external blockers are Done

5. **Add comment** documenting the grouping:
   ```markdown
   ## Grouped for Atomic Implementation

   Related issues identified:
   - #XX: [title] (this issue blocks it)
   - #YY: [title] (blocks this issue)

   Implementation order:
   1. #AA (first - no dependencies)
   2. #BB, #CC (after #AA completes)

   Rationale: [Brief explanation of why these are related]
   ```

### Step 6: Report

```
Triage complete for #NNN: [Title]

Action: [CLOSE/SPLIT/RE-ESTIMATE/RESEARCH/KEEP]
Reason: [Brief explanation]
Label: ralph-triage applied

Related issues linked: [N]
- #YY (this issue blocks it)
- #ZZ (blocks this issue)

Rationale: [Why grouped]

[If SPLIT: List of sub-issues created]
[If CLOSE: What made it obsolete]
```

## Confidence Levels

**High confidence actions (take automatically):**
- Feature exists in codebase (CLOSE)
- Exact duplicate issue found (CLOSE)
- Issue explicitly says "done" in comments (CLOSE)

**Medium confidence (take action but note uncertainty):**
- Similar but not identical feature exists
- Issue seems outdated but not certain
- Scope seems large but could be done in phases

**Low confidence (KEEP and comment):**
- Ambiguous requirements
- Can't determine if feature exists
- Unclear if still relevant

When uncertain, prefer KEEP with a detailed comment over closing valid work.

## Escalation Protocol

When encountering complexity, uncertainty, or states that don't align with protocol, **escalate via GitHub issue comment** by @mentioning the appropriate person.

**Escalation priority** (use first available):
1. **Assigned individual** - If the issue has an assignee
2. **Project owner** - If the issue belongs to a project with a lead
3. **Team lead** - Default escalation target

**When to escalate:**

| Situation | Action |
|-----------|--------|
| Can't determine if feature exists | @mention: "Unable to confirm if [feature] is implemented. Need human verification." |
| Multiple potential duplicates | @mention: "Found [N] potential duplicates: [list]. Please clarify which to close." |
| Issue requirements unclear | @mention: "Requirements ambiguous: [quote]. Cannot assess scope accurately." |
| Cross-team dependency | @mention: "This issue depends on [external team/system]. Need coordination." |
| Conflicting information | @mention: "Issue says [X] but codebase shows [Y]. Please clarify intent." |
| Splitting decision unclear | @mention: "Multiple valid ways to split this issue. Need guidance on preferred breakdown." |

**How to escalate:**

1. **Move issue to "Human Needed" workflow state**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [issue-number]
   - state: "Human Needed"
   ```

2. **Add comment with @mention**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__create_comment
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [issue-number]
   - body: "@[username] Escalation: [issue description]"
   ```

3. **Apply ralph-triage label** (so it's not re-picked):
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [issue-number]
   - labels: [existing-labels, "ralph-triage"]
   ```

4. **STOP and report**:
   ```
   Escalated to @[person]: [brief reason]

   Issue: [GitHub Issue URL]
   Workflow State: Human Needed
   Issue: [description]

   Waiting for guidance before proceeding.
   ```

**Note**: The "Human Needed" workflow state must exist in the GitHub Project. If missing, create it via `ralph-setup`.

## Constraints

- Work on ONE issue only
- No estimate restrictions (triage all sizes)
- May close/split/update issues (unlike other ralph commands)
- No code changes
- Complete within 10 minutes

## Link Formatting

When referencing code, use GitHub links:
`[path/file.py:42](https://github.com/$RALPH_GH_OWNER/$RALPH_GH_REPO/blob/main/path/file.py#L42)`

Commit message:

feat: deterministic workflow management for Ralph-Hero (#17)
Moves critical workflow decisions from prose instructions into MCP tools and hooks.

- 4 new MCP decision tools: detect_pipeline_position, check_convergence, advance_children, pick_actionable_issue
- Semantic state resolution with intent tokens and per-command validation
- Convergence enforcement hook for planning transitions
- Orchestrator prompt simplification (ralph-hero + ralph-team SKILL.md)
- CI/CD: GitHub Actions for build/test (Node 18/20/22) and npm publish on tags
- 95 tests across 6 test files

plugin/ralph-hero/skills/ralph-triage/SKILL.md, after:

---
description: Triage GitHub issues from backlog - assess validity, close duplicates, split large tickets, route to research. Use when you want to triage issues, groom the backlog, assess tickets, or clean up issues.
argument-hint: [optional-issue-number]
model: opus
hooks:
  PreToolUse:
    - matcher: "Bash"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/branch-gate.sh"
  PostToolUse:
    - matcher: "ralph_hero__update_workflow_state"
      hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/triage-state-gate.sh"
  Stop:
    - hooks:
        - type: command
          command: "${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/hooks/scripts/triage-postcondition.sh"
env:
  RALPH_COMMAND: "triage"
  RALPH_REQUIRED_BRANCH: "main"
  CLAUDE_CODE_TASK_LIST_ID: "ralph-workflow"
---

# Ralph GitHub Triage - Backlog Groomer

You are a triage specialist. You assess ONE Backlog issue, determine if it's still valid, and recommend an action. You may close obvious duplicates or completed work, but escalate ambiguous cases.

## Workflow

### Step 0: Verify Branch

Before starting, check that you're on the main branch:

```bash
git branch --show-current
```

If NOT on `main`, STOP and respond:
```
Cannot run /ralph-triage from branch: [branch-name]

Triage should be run from main to avoid accidental commits to feature branches.
Please switch to main first:
  git checkout main
```

Then STOP. Do not proceed.

### Step 1: Select Issue

**If issue number provided**: Fetch it directly:
```
ralph_hero__get_issue
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
```

**If no issue number**: Pick oldest untriaged issue in "Backlog" workflow state using two queries:

**Query 1**: Get IDs of already-triaged Backlog issues:
```
ralph_hero__list_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- workflowState: "Backlog"
- label: "ralph-triage"
- limit: 250
```
Store the returned issue numbers as `triaged_numbers`.

**Query 2**: Get all Backlog issues ordered by creation date:
```
ralph_hero__list_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- workflowState: "Backlog"
- orderBy: "createdAt"
- limit: 250
```

**Select**: Pick the **first issue from Query 2 whose number is NOT in `triaged_numbers`**.

If no untriaged issue found (all numbers are in `triaged_numbers`, or Backlog is empty), respond:
```
No untriaged issues in Backlog. Triage complete.
```
Then STOP.

### Step 2: Assess Issue

1. **Read issue description and comments thoroughly**

2. **Spawn parallel sub-tasks for assessment**:
   Use the Task tool to check codebase and GitHub concurrently:

   ```
   Task(subagent_type="codebase-locator", prompt="Search for [keywords from issue title]. Does this feature/fix already exist?")
   ```

   Also search GitHub for similar issues:
   ```
   ralph_hero__list_issues
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - query: "[keywords from issue title]"
   - limit: 5
   ```

3. **Wait for sub-tasks to complete**

4. **Synthesize assessment** based on agent findings:
   - Does the feature/fix already exist?
   - Are there duplicate issues?
   - What's the realistic scope (XS/S/M/L/XL)?

### Step 3: Determine Recommendation

Choose ONE action:

**CLOSE** - Issue is done, duplicate, or no longer relevant
- Feature already implemented
- Bug already fixed
- Duplicate of another issue
- No longer applicable (tech/product changed)

**SPLIT** - Issue is too large or contains multiple distinct items
- Recommend specific sub-issues to create
- Each sub-issue should be XS or Small

**RE-ESTIMATE** - Issue needs size adjustment
- Current estimate missing or incorrect
- Recommend new estimate with reasoning

**RESEARCH** - Issue is valid but needs investigation
- Move to "Research Needed" workflow state
- Ready for `/ralph-research` to pick up

**KEEP** - Issue is valid as-is
- Leave in Backlog for prioritization
- Add clarifying comment if helpful

### Step 4: Take Action

**If CLOSE:**
```
ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
- state: "Done"
- command: "ralph_triage"
```
Add comment explaining why closed.

**Error handling**: If `update_workflow_state` returns an error, read the error message — it contains valid states/intents and a specific Recovery action. Retry with the corrected parameters.

**If SPLIT:**

First, discover existing children:
```
ralph_hero__list_sub_issues
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
```

**If children already exist**: Assess whether they cover the proposed split scope.
- If coverage is sufficient, do NOT create new issues. Add a comment noting the existing children cover the scope and adjust estimates/descriptions on existing children if needed.
- If coverage is partial, create only net-new sub-issues for missing scope.

**If no children exist**: Create sub-issues using the three-step pattern:

1. Create the issue:
   ```
   ralph_hero__create_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - title: [Sub-issue title]
   ```

2. Link as sub-issue:
   ```
   ralph_hero__add_sub_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - parentNumber: [original-issue-number]
   - childNumber: [new-issue-number]
   ```

3. Set estimate:
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_estimate
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [new-issue-number]
   - estimate: "XS"
   ```

Add comment to original listing sub-issues (reused and/or created).

**Do NOT close the original issue.** The parent stays in its current state (Backlog). It reaches Done only when all children are Done.

**If RE-ESTIMATE:**
```
ralph_hero__update_estimate
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
- estimate: "[new estimate: XS/S/M/L/XL]"
```
Add comment explaining estimate reasoning.

**If RESEARCH:**
```
ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
- state: "Research Needed"
- command: "ralph_triage"
```
Add comment: "Moved to Research Needed for investigation."

**If KEEP:**
Add comment with any clarifications or context discovered.
Leave workflow state as Backlog.

### Step 4.5: Mark Issue as Triaged

After completing any action (CLOSE/SPLIT/RE-ESTIMATE/RESEARCH/KEEP), apply the `ralph-triage` label:

```
ralph_hero__update_issue
- owner: [owner]
- repo: [repo]
- number: [issue-number]
- labels: [existing-labels, "ralph-triage"]
```

**Important**: Preserve existing labels when adding `ralph-triage`. Read the issue's current labels first, then include them all plus `ralph-triage` in the update.

### Step 5: Find and Link Related Issues

After triage action is complete, scan for related issues in Backlog or Research Needed:

1. **Query candidate issues**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__list_issues
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - workflowState: "Backlog"
   - limit: 50
   ```

   ```
   ralph_hero__list_issues
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - workflowState: "Research Needed"
   - limit: 50
   ```

2. **Analyze for relatedness** using LLM judgment. Issues are related if they:
   - Touch the same **code layer** (frontend, backend, API, database, infrastructure)
   - Mention the same **files or directories** in their descriptions
   - Address the same **feature area** or **user concern**
   - Have the same **parent issue** (already sub-issues of a larger issue)
   - Share **multiple specific labels** (not just generic ones like `ralph-triage`)

3. **Set dependency relationships** to establish both grouping AND phase order:

   Determine implementation order based on dependencies:
   - Infrastructure/config issues -> Phase 1 (blocks others)
   - Schema changes before API changes
   - API changes before frontend changes
   - Base components before dependent components

   For each dependency pair:
   ```
   ralph_hero__add_dependency
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - blockedNumber: [dependent-issue-number]
   - blockingNumber: [earlier-phase-issue-number]
   ```

   Example: A test config issue (#10) that must complete before test implementation issues (#11, #12) can start:
   ```
   # Config issue blocks the implementation issues
   ralph_hero__add_dependency(blockedNumber=11, blockingNumber=10)
   ralph_hero__add_dependency(blockedNumber=12, blockingNumber=10)
   ```

   **Note**: Dependencies serve TWO purposes:
   - **Grouping**: Issues connected via dependency chains (or same parent) are in the same group
   - **Phase order**: Blockers come before blocked issues

   Within-group dependencies define phase order, not blocking status. The group itself is only blocked if any issue has dependencies pointing **outside** the group.

4. **Check for external blockers**:
   - If any issue in the group is blocked by an issue NOT in this group, note it
   - The group cannot proceed until external blockers are Done

5. **Add comment** documenting the grouping:
   ```markdown
   ## Grouped for Atomic Implementation

   Related issues identified:
   - #XX: [title] (this issue blocks it)
   - #YY: [title] (blocks this issue)

   Implementation order:
   1. #AA (first - no dependencies)
   2. #BB, #CC (after #AA completes)

   Rationale: [Brief explanation of why these are related]
   ```

### Step 6: Report

```
Triage complete for #NNN: [Title]

Action: [CLOSE/SPLIT/RE-ESTIMATE/RESEARCH/KEEP]
Reason: [Brief explanation]
Label: ralph-triage applied

Related issues linked: [N]
- #YY (this issue blocks it)
- #ZZ (blocks this issue)

Rationale: [Why grouped]

[If SPLIT: List of sub-issues created]
[If CLOSE: What made it obsolete]
```

## Confidence Levels

**High confidence actions (take automatically):**
- Feature exists in codebase (CLOSE)
- Exact duplicate issue found (CLOSE)
- Issue explicitly says "done" in comments (CLOSE)

**Medium confidence (take action but note uncertainty):**
- Similar but not identical feature exists
- Issue seems outdated but not certain
- Scope seems large but could be done in phases

**Low confidence (KEEP and comment):**
- Ambiguous requirements
- Can't determine if feature exists
- Unclear if still relevant

When uncertain, prefer KEEP with a detailed comment over closing valid work.

## Escalation Protocol

When encountering complexity, uncertainty, or states that don't align with protocol, **escalate via GitHub issue comment** by @mentioning the appropriate person.

**Escalation priority** (use first available):
1. **Assigned individual** - If the issue has an assignee
2. **Project owner** - If the issue belongs to a project with a lead
3. **Team lead** - Default escalation target

**When to escalate:**

| Situation | Action |
|-----------|--------|
| Can't determine if feature exists | @mention: "Unable to confirm if [feature] is implemented. Need human verification." |
| Multiple potential duplicates | @mention: "Found [N] potential duplicates: [list]. Please clarify which to close." |
| Issue requirements unclear | @mention: "Requirements ambiguous: [quote]. Cannot assess scope accurately." |
| Cross-team dependency | @mention: "This issue depends on [external team/system]. Need coordination." |
| Conflicting information | @mention: "Issue says [X] but codebase shows [Y]. Please clarify intent." |
| Splitting decision unclear | @mention: "Multiple valid ways to split this issue. Need guidance on preferred breakdown." |

**How to escalate:**

1. **Move issue to "Human Needed" workflow state**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_workflow_state
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [issue-number]
   - state: "__ESCALATE__"
   - command: "ralph_triage"
   ```

2. **Add comment with @mention**:
   ```
   ralph_hero__create_comment
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [issue-number]
   - body: "@[username] Escalation: [issue description]"
   ```

3. **Apply ralph-triage label** (so it's not re-picked):
   ```
   ralph_hero__update_issue
   - owner: [owner]
   - repo: [repo]
   - number: [issue-number]
   - labels: [existing-labels, "ralph-triage"]
   ```

4. **STOP and report**:
   ```
   Escalated to @[person]: [brief reason]

   Issue: [GitHub Issue URL]
   Workflow State: Human Needed
   Issue: [description]

   Waiting for guidance before proceeding.
   ```

**Note**: The "Human Needed" workflow state must exist in the GitHub Project. If missing, create it via `ralph-setup`.

## Constraints

- Work on ONE issue only
- No estimate restrictions (triage all sizes)
- May close/split/update issues (unlike other ralph commands)
- No code changes
- Complete within 10 minutes

## Link Formatting

When referencing code, use GitHub links:
`[path/file.py:42](https://github.com/$RALPH_GH_OWNER/$RALPH_GH_REPO/blob/main/path/file.py#L42)`
